{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020502060305060204}New York;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020502060305060204}New York;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \f12\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Stone Elves Minds - 4.0}{\author Jake Taylor}{\keywords NERO}{\operator Assistant 4}{\creatim\yr1999\mo6\dy16\hr18\min52}{\revtim\yr1999\mo6\dy16\hr18\min52}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages11}{\nofwords3690}{\nofchars21036}{\*\company Crew Cuts Film and Tape, Inc.}{\nofcharsws25833}{\vern99}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale75 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qr\widctlpar\adjustright \f12\cgrid {Jacob Taylor\par }\pard \qr\widctlpar\adjustright {jmtaylor@fas.harvard.edu\par }\pard \qr\widctlpar\adjustright {8/14/98}{\b \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b The Mental Abilities of Stone Elves\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Kyraliat are well known to the other races of Tyrra as healers of the insane.  Though many }{\i kirsriezat}{ (mental healers) have dedicated their lives to understanding the inner workings of the kyralian mind, the primary emphasis has been on applying the gift to healing the minds of those less fortunate.  There are several \ldblquote laws\rdblquote  of mental healing accepted by all that use it, yet it\rquote s overall nature and limitations are truly unknown.  In part the problem lies with the individual\rquote s interpretation; each kyralia sees the mind of another in their unique way, and it\rquote s difficult at best to see the connections between the different perceptions of the mind.  Still, the commonly accepted rules of mind healing (and kyralian mind melding in general) are as follows:\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab All of a kyralian\rquote s senses while melding are dedicated to the task; they have only their autonomous nervous system maintaining their body while melding.  Furthermore, all five senses detect varying types and intensities of emotion.  How each sees/smells/hears/feels/tastes various emotions change from kyralia to kyralia, and are thought to be in part hereditary.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Though this generally makes a kyralia totally vulnerable while melding, more advanced healers have been known to utilize the sense of their patient to maintain a very limited knowledge of the outside world.  Such ability requires decades of training in the many subtle aspects of melding.  Only the }{\i aym\rquote kirsriezat}{ (elder healers) are known to accomplish this.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Some of the }{\i kirmest}{ (scholars) who study the }{\i kirsriezat}{ have suggested that much of a kyralian\rquote s measure of skill in melding comes in their facility in the perception of emotion; those with finer senses often are the best healers; however, this is no hard and fast rule.  Some of the best }{\i kirsriezat}{ come from a long line of very successful healers, and these bloodlines are often protected, with the }{\i aym\rquote roin}{ (elder) of each }{\i assivenn}{ (house) often denying the rights of marriage to one until they have fulfilled their duty and chosen another who might strengthen the bloodline.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab A kyralia may neither create nor destroy emotion over the short period of time that a healing lasts.  Furthermore, changing one type of emotion to another is difficult and often beyond the ability of a kyralian attempting the healing.  Much healing is accomplished through simple transfer of emotions, which the kyralian may then deal with at their leisure.  Here, another innate ability of the kyralia comes to play, as they slowly assimilate trapped emotion within themselves and reduce it to neutral feelings.  This can take anywhere from a month to decades, depending on the amount and intensity of emotion.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Occasionally a Kyralia will absorb more emotion than they can safely contain and process.  In such cases, one of several things has been known to happen.  Usually the Kyralia\rquote s mind erects an instinctual barrier to block the emotion out of the higher levels of thinking, at which point it invades the rest of the mind.  The other races often refer to this as Stone Elven battle rage, when a stone elf loses control over his or her body and it vents the emotion in whatever way available.  Often this comes in the form of rage, though other strong emotions may take control of the body causing passion, fear, depression, or joy strong enough, in case, to kill the body.  The shock of death does much to alleviate the emotions, but they stay with the spirit of the stone elf through resurrection, and in rare cases a Kyralia has been known to die in the course of battle rage, only to resurrect and continue the venting of emotion.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Of all emotions, rage is the most dangerous.  Anger feeds anger, and unless a kyralia is entirely centered in their }{\i kaigir}{ (being) and have full control of their }{\i sixent}{ (emotion), absorbing anger from another often leads to the resident anger in the kyralia breaking through the interior defenses in resonance.  However, such an occurrence is not limited to anger.  Any emotion the kyralia might not have fully under control can break through if a similar emotion is being examined or controlled in the patient, often to the detriment of the kyralia first, and if their defenses fail entirely, their recipient as way.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Thus, all kyralia are taught the meditative skills early on, to center themselves and create their internal defenses; these defenses are up at all times, constantly being tested and reinforced.  Often a kyralia will spend half an hour to an hour preparing for a healing, testing their own defenses before being tested by another being.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab The patient controls their own mind.  Occasionally a kyralia will attempt }{\i sriehigir}{ (healing) on a being, only to find their way blocked by the unconscious defenses of the being.  In the end, a kyralia cannot do anything the mind they are healing does not desire done; often, most of the art of healing comes in convincing the subconscious to want the healing to be performed.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab The }{\i sriehigir}{, and mind melding in general, only access emotions.  Unlike the Biata, a kyralia cannot directly influence or see memories.  However, they can often understand emotive memory, getting glimpses of the sources of strong emotion within another being.  Sometimes the perception of emotion will render it in the form of an experience, usually a modified form of the original experience that led to the emotion, clouded by the emotions of the time and of the memory of the event.  For example, sadness over the death of another might be seen as a joyfully image of the missed one, but the features twisted into those of the dead.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab The mind is infinite in complexity and depth.  No kyralian has ever explored all the avenues of the mind, not even their own.  There are always deeper layers, more primeval roots, that a kyralia will never see or even know exist.  Some of the most difficult healing comes in fixing difficulties at these levels; most of the time is spent in the diagnosis and subsequent trip to the source of trouble.  Occasionally a kyralia has attempted to heal such a deep wound, to never again awaken, thought to be trapped in an infinite journey to the center of the infinite mind of the patient.  Breaking contact at this point will often free the patient, but the kyralia will most likely go into deep catatonia, the only cure of which is mental healing.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab With these rules to consider, what is it like inside the mind of another?  No kyralia will tell the same story, but it is often like visiting a world of infinite dreams, with each blending into the other and most tinged with various emotions.  Though it is infinite, there is a definite scale to this world; a stone elf need not look at the deepest levels of a section of mind to get the general feel.  Often the damage to the patient has occurred at one single event, and tracing the current dreams back to this one event often suggests a cure, by removing the emotion associated it into the mind of the kyralia, where it is dealt with at the leisure of the kyralia.  Sometimes, another viewpoint of the mind is required, one which sees all the fine details as a whole, while ignoring the individual dreams.  This viewpoint is often used for damage done long in the past, which has had much time to propagate throughout the mind and taint many parts.  Both types of seeing are difficult, but the latter is more challenging, requiring a shift of perspective alien to one\rquote s normal viewpoint.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b The Steps}{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab To do a mind meld under normal conditions, one usually does the following.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab [OOG: First, the player whose character is to be healed must be informed by the player whose character is doing the healing that the entire experience is voluntary, and at any point the recipient can push the kyralia out of their mind.  The healing cannot force anyone to do anything, nor destroy, damage, or make anyone\rquote s character unplayable in any way unless they agree to it.  Furthermore, the effects of the healing or meld can be purged from the character\rquote s mind at any time if the player feels it is making their character unplayable.  Once the player has agreed to let the meld go on, the in game steps begin.]\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Usually the kyralia sits down to meditate, for anywhere between five minutes and an hour, depending on the condition of the kyralia (if just coming in from hours of intense battle, much meditation is necessary to be fully centered and emotionless for the meld!) and the severity of the insanity.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Then, the kyralia puts their dominant hand on the head of the person being melded with, and the meld begins.  At this point the kyralia is entirely submersed, and can only be brought out by their own will or by having the contact broken, either through attack or by others breaking the link.  Note that anything other than the kyralia breaking the link will result in dire consequences for the kyralia, and occasionally for the patient; battle rage is an example of such a side effect, as is instant death or insanity.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab There are several standard techniques kyralia use while melding with others.  They are:\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Movement.  The kyralia can, at will, move his or her perspective; however, the kyralia carries any unshielded emotions as well.  If he or she encounters a filter wall against anger, for example, and have anger outside his or her shields, he or she cannot pass.  Furthermore, emotion transferred to the kyralia from the patient will be unshielded until dealt with.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Sense emotion.  This is done at the subconscious level and is interpreted by the mind of the kyralia as a substitute for their body\rquote s senses.  The dream analogy arises from this ability.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Transfer emotion.  A simple movement of one emotion from an area of the mind to the kyralia, or from the kyralia to the patient\rquote s mind.  Used to take a concentration of emotion from one area and transfer it to the kyralia performing the healing.  The kyralia can act as a conduit, moving the emotion through them to another part of the patient or another melded being.  However, he or she must be able to temporarily deal with the amount of emotion being transferred.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Create/Destroy Filter Wall.  A boundary, through which a specific emotion cannot flow.  However, a high intensity emotion might make it through, though lessened in the process.  Filter walls can either be very specific and very strong, or broader and thus weaker.  They are often used to isolate a section of mind causing difficulties for the patient.  Unfortunately, they can break down over time, and is merely a temporary fix, usually put in place before working on that section of the mind.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Create/Destroy Emotion Sink.  Pulls a specific emotion towards it, building a concentration of that emotion from the surrounds.  Usual used to build sufficient emotion of an opposing type to counter the excess in a section of the mind.  Note that this type of healing leads to a patient often prone to extremes, and is less successful than pulling the emotion out into the healer\rquote s mind.  However, because it uses the patients it can deal with larger amounts of emotion than the kyralia healer can directly.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Move Pathway.  Reroutes a pathway for emotion within the mind.  Often used to re-associate emotions with events.  For example, if the patient cannot remember a portion of their life due to the sadness they feel over it, the link between the sadness and that section of memory can be rerouted to another memory, thus allowing the patient to access it.  This doesn\rquote t actually move any pre-existing emotion, just reroutes further instances of that emotion.  Note that it is beyond the known powers of kyralia to create or destroy pathways; one merely changes the structure.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Contingency.  The kyralia can set a contingency wall, which is nearly undetectable (though careful study will reveal it without setting off the contingency) which will activate a series of events involving pathways, filters, transfer of emotion, communication, and even more contingencies, after the contingency event passes the filter.  This can be used to set up a long term healing in the patient\rquote s mind, though on occasion a rogue kyralia will use it to set a trap within the mind of the patient. \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\bullet \tab Communicate.  The final, and most powerful skill.  It allows the kyralia to communicate with the dreams encountered, or more generally, with the various subconscious levels of the being.  The subtlest healing is accomplished by convincing the hurt portion of the mind to begin the healing process, and this is often the most difficult task.  A greatly damaged section of mind can be irrational beyond belief, and sometimes the kyralia must provide it with the stimuli it craves, to give it the taste of having been healed, to allow for the true healing to begin.  This story telling of a sort requires a large amount of built up emotion within the kyralia to be able to weave the tale out of feelings.  Here, the kyralia is quite open to accidentally receive emotion from the patient\rquote s mind, leading to various possible problems.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b The Code of the }{\b\i Kirsriezat}{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab All kyralia are taught the code of the mind healers, the }{\i quon\rquote kirsriezat}{.  Any kyralia who has violated the code is tracked down by the }{\i kirsriezat}{ and brought back to be examined; if it is thought they can be returned to the proper ways, the kyralia will be healed by the }{\i kirsriezat}{ and returned to kyralian society, to be slowly reintegrated.  If such a healing cannot be performed, the }{\i kirsriezat}{ are known to leave the perpetrator without their emotional melding abilities, though the method for this is a secret of the }{\i kirsriezat}{.  Other punishments have been meted out throughout the history of the kyralia, and often it is tailored to the offense.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab The code itself comes from several millennia of healing, and is older than most kyralia.  Its tenets follow the basic rules of healing, and the morals of the kyralia.  Roughly translated, they are:\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {Thou shall not intentionally harm another, or through inaction cause harm to another.  \par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {Thou shall do all within thy power to aid those in need of healing, and it is thy solemn duty to be ever vigilant for the insane and less fortunate, so they need suffer no more than necessary.  \par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {Thou shall seek the aid of others when thy own skill shall not prevail, lest two be stricken where before one was.\par }\pard \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright {The mind and its memories are sacred and private.  Thou shall never divulge the experiences of another unless their healing requires such an outside knowledge.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }{\b An Example}{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab The last of the war ogres flies backward at the blow, then drops dead.  Quickly, the party searches the fallen monsters for any valuables, until a cry from beyond the next door reaches their ears.  It is the beginning of horrible wailing, the sound of a torture beyond the limits of what a human could endure.  The party groups at the door, getting ready to come to the poor man\rquote s rescue.  Guy, the fighter, shoves the door open, hoping to surprise anyone waiting them.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab A whelp of pain comes from the source of the screaming, and the party enters the room, empty except for the source of the cries.  Amongst the debris of torture implements and manacles lies the quivering body of Lei, the one man who might know the way out of the ogre caves they are stuck in.  All attempts by the party to revive Lei from his catatonic state are unsuccessful.  Taking stock of the situation, the party decides that T\rquote ressent, the one stone elf in the party, should attempt to heal the man\rquote s mind so they might eventually escape.  T\rquote ressent in turn agrees to attempt it, but warns the rest of his party to under no circumstance allow the link to be broken.  T\rquote ressent sits down to meditate and prepare his internal defenses, while the rest of the party performs a protective barrier at the door.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab [OOG, T\rquote ressent\rquote s player informs Lei\rquote s player of the nature of mind melding, and that Lei can shove T\rquote ressent out of his mind at any point.  He also tells Lei\rquote s player that the character won\rquote t become unplayable or be damaged unless he agrees to it.  Then T\rquote ressent\rquote s player tells Lei\rquote s player to describe what T\rquote ressent sees as he enters Lei\rquote s mind.  The player suggests to Lei\rquote s player to describe the layout of Lei\rquote s mind, in terms of emotions; maybe a map of emotions in the mind, or several recent scenes in Lei\rquote s life, tinged with emotion.  The choice is Lei\rquote s player\rquote s.]\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab After several minutes of preparation, T\rquote ressent knows time is against him and, seating himself comfortably, places his left hand on Lei\rquote s forehead.  His eyes slowly close, and he sends his senses out through the link into Lei\rquote s mind, beginning the meld.  All external feelings disappear, and T\rquote ressent is now fully inside Lei\rquote s mind.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab As T\rquote ressent begins the meld, Lei\rquote s mind slowly unfolds to his senses.  He is at the boundary to the mind, looking into a vast, complex series of ever shifting emotions.  Where, in a healthy mind happiness and humor might exist from recent joyful experiences, only fear and anger exist.  The outside of the mind is tinged in crimson red and swirling with black; manacles form in the mist, burning bright, to disappear again.  The swirling emotions dart towards T\rquote ressent\rquote s presence, aggressive in defense of their territory.  As T\rquote ressent forms a filter wall to block out their attack, he sees a face in the mists, cold and calculating, features twisted into a mockery of a smile, diabolical in its power.  It reeks of fear.  He thinks, \ldblquote Perhaps the one who caused this damage\u8230\'c9\rdblquote \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab The anger beats against the filter wall, a tiny amount leaking through.  T\rquote ressent feels a response from within his shields, perhaps the emotional remains of the fight won just ten minutes past.  Knowing he must push on past this, he hopes his defenses will hold, and begins extending the filter wall towards the mind, a spike to pierce the shell holding the mind hostage.  Slowly he extends it, trying to build a corridor protected from the fear and rage.  The walls begin to weaken, his mind unable to allow for such a complex and large structure, so T\rquote ressent travels down the corridor and shrinks it behind him.  Soon it becomes a protective bubble with his mental essence in the middle, heading straight towards the maelstrom of terror.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab It rises like a wall, and the screaming T\rquote ressent heard from Lei\rquote s mouth earlier comes back, now a thousand voices in dissonance.  Strengthening his filter wall to block the sound, he braces his defenses as the bubble plunges into the swirling emotions.  He heads inwards, through denser and denser emotion, until, as his walls begin to break down, he suddenly passes through an invisible barrier, and suddenly finds his presence on a path, sunlight streaming through the woods about him.  He hears laughter from a nearby meadow.  Lei and another are sitting on a blanket, food spread out around them, obviously enjoying the beautiful weather.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab T\rquote ressent now suspects Lei\rquote s subconscious has thrown up a barrier of anger and fear to prevent further mental damage, and Lei\rquote s consciousness has been trapped inside, being fed happy memories, while the body remains unattended.  T\rquote ressent starts an emotional sink to build up calm, hoping to eventually bargain with the subconscious; there is far too much anger and fear for him to deal with on his own.  He could try to capture all the rage and terror in a filter wall boundary, and slowly let it leak out, to be dealt with at a normal rate.  But first he needs it calmer, malleable.  Ideally he will be able to take parts of the anger and fear out over the next several weeks until the filter wall can come down.  But right now he knows time is essential and he needs Lei conscious again, soon.  Still, the }{\i quon\rquote kirsriezat}{ limits his actions; he cannot do damage to Lei\rquote s mind in the long term for a short-term fix.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Slowly T\rquote ressent\rquote s awareness spreads, diffusing throughout the forest, through other dimensions of the mind, until he begins to see the intricate weave which makes up the stuff of the mind.  This deeper level is the realm of the subconscious; here he is more vulnerable, yet he can attempt to directly communicate and convince the subconscious to corral the anger and fear.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Images of the torture room, clean and filled with friendly faces drawn from the calm sink, are directed by T\rquote ressent towards the elements of the weave.  It\rquote s a diffuse signal, unnoticed by the conscious mind enjoying its picnic.  T\rquote ressent feels the subconscious start to recoil; he quickly recalls the image of the torture chamber and replaces it with the surface just above the caves, Lei and his friends walking away from the cave.  The subconscious relaxes again; T\rquote ressent begins another tactic.  He sends images of manacles and torture implements; each is tinged with anger and fear, and as they reach the subconscious, the fear overwhelms the anger and then the fear and implement disappear under the careful eye of a being resembling T\rquote ressent, drawn away out of the mind.  \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab T\rquote ressent feels the subconscious begin to respond, and his peripheral vision detects a lessening of the swirling.  Preparing his defenses for one last assault, T\rquote ressent pulls his essence back together, then surrounds himself with a filter wall bubble.  He wills himself outside the barrier, into the maelstrom.  However, the storm of emotion is subdued; strong, but undergoing a sort of internal battle, as fear and anger compete in small sections.  Taking quick action, T\rquote ressent begins to expand his bubble, letting it collect sections of the fear and anger, slowly but surely sweeping it together, away from the barrier.  The remnants of emotion T\rquote ressent quickly gathers unto himself, to prevent it attacking the filter wall from the other side.  The emotion building within him is strong, but his defenses hold.  Soon the last of the anger and fear is either trapped within the filter wall or contained in his own defenses.  Finally, he builds a transparent contingency around the filter wall, to build another if the first breaks.  It should hopefully last long enough for T\rquote ressent to recover from this healing and take more of the emotion into himself.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Finally, he returns to the barrier, within which Lei\rquote s consciousness resides.  Drawing on the last of the emotion sink contained within, he makes a lure outside the barrier.  Looking within, he sees Lei get up off the blanket and walk down the pathway, towards the sense of calm.  Eventually he gets to the barrier, and puzzled for a moment, pushes against it.  It gives to his hand, and Lei steps to embrace the calm.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab T\rquote ressent slowly withdraws from the mind, and breaks contact.  His internal battle has just begun, as he attempts to process the anger contained within his defenses.  Slowly his senses return; Lei has opened his eyes and has started to look around, his screaming gone, but the sound of battle replaces it.  Wearied by the healing, and fighting his own internal battle, T\rquote ressent turns to help his friends . . .\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\b Tidbits}{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab A kyralia can meld with only one non-kyralia, though it is possible to meld with two kyraliat at the same time.  The melds are usually one way.  Thus, say one kyralia, T\rquote ressent, attempts to heal a human, Deathblade.  Meanwhile, another kyralia, Guivant, melds with T\rquote ressent.  Guivant sees T\rquote ressent\rquote s unconscious and emotive mind, and can, through T\rquote ressent, access Deathblade, and transfer emotion from Deathblade directly to Guivant.  T\rquote ressent, on the other hand, will sense Guivant\rquote s presence but be unable to enter Guivant\rquote s mind.  Deathblade with merely sense T\rquote ressent and maybe another presence, though who the second is will likely be vague.  A two-way meld is established between two kyraliat by a simultaneous meld.  This allows for emotive communication and is a sacred, bonding experience, usually saved for marriage or blood friends.  To meld with two kyralia requires great skill, and is usually only attempted by the more advanced }{\i kirsriezat}{.\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab Traps as set by others vary in their effects, and ideally the kyralia doing the meld that encounters the trap will interpret its effects and role-play it in an interesting and enjoyable manner.  However, if one is in doubt of whether a trap could be disarmed, the following ranking system should work.  The ability of an elf is measured in the following system:\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Rank 1 -- young Kyralian (150- yrs)\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Rank 2 -- mature Kyralian\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Rank 3 -- elder Kyralian (1250+ yrs) or }{\i kirsrieza}{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {Rank 4 -- advanced }{\i kirsrieza}{ (NPC only)\par Rank 5 -- }{\i aym\rquote kirsrieza}{ (NPC only)\par \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {In general, the time required to detect a trap as set by that of another rank is given by the following:\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx3960\tx5040\tx6120\adjustright {Rank(setter) - Rank(melder)\tab Detect\tab Disarm\tab Effect\par -4\tab 1s\tab 1s\tab No effect\par -3\tab 2s\tab 4s\tab Minimal\par -2\tab 5s\tab 10s\tab A little emotion\par -1\tab 15s\tab 30s\tab Significant emotion\par 0\tab 1 m\tab 5 m\tab Containable emotion\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx3960\tx5040\tx6120\adjustright {1\tab 2 m\tab 10 m\tab Almost \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab uncontainable \tab \tab \tab emotion\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx3960\tx5040\tx6120\adjustright {2\tab 5 m\tab 20 m\tab Battle rage or equiv.\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx3960\tx5040\tx6120\adjustright {3\tab 20 m\tab 1 hr\tab As above, but to \tab \tab \tab death\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx3960\tx5040\tx6120\adjustright {4\tab 1 hr\tab can\rquote t\tab As above, but \tab \tab \tab continues beyond \tab \tab \tab resurrection\par }\pard \widctlpar\tx4320\tx5400\tx6480\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\tab If two stone elves were involved in the setting, the highest rank is used.  If three or more of the same rank set the trap, the next higher rank is used, and for each two additional, the backlash goes up by a rank.  If two try and disarm it of different ranks, the rank of the highest is used, but the times are halved; however, the effects hit both kyralia.  If two of the same rank try it (and any of equal or lesser rank), their overall rank is increased by one, times are halved, and any additional beyond the two can help to alleviate the side effects.\par }}